[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: IDs are quite similar to
classes, that you're gonna put them on
there, and it's just kind of another way
of labeling, what you're having on there.
The big difference in ID's is that
they are unique to your page, right?
So in the previous example we
saw picture groups, right?
We can have ten picture groups,
we can have ten blog posts,
we can have ten paragraphs.
They're kind of things you can have
multiple of, and they're reusable, right?
I guess that's the biggest thing
I'm trying to get at is that
they're reusable.
>> Brian Holt: IDs
are different that they're
totally unique to your page.
So, like for example if I had ten blog
post and I would needed to address only
the second one I could call
that one blog-post-2, right?
Like you're only gonna have
one blog-post-2 on your page.
>> Brian Holt: That kind make sense
a little bit.
Yeah, yeah that's the example I used,
good for me.
[LAUGH].
So yeah classes are made to be reused.
You're creating classes because you say
like this is going to be useful and
you wanna make things as
generic as possible, right?
Because the idea with writing this html
is you want components to be reusable so
that when I go create my third blog post,
I don't have to redo everything I did for
my second blog post.
I can just reuse everything
I used from my first post.
And it goes back to,
developers are lazy and
we wanna do the absolute least amount
of effort to get the thing done.
Again this will become
more applicable with CSS.
Or rather probably it will
just make it more concrete
anyway.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's just go straight to the code ben.
>> Brian Holt: Resolving host.
>> Brian Holt: There we go, okay.
So as you can see here, more cat pictures.
Surprise, surprise, okay.
So here I have two groups of cat pictures,
right?
And say, I, for whatever reason,
like I needed to hide group-2, right and
I only wanted to hide the second one and
I didn't wanna hide the first one.
I now have the ability to kind of hook
into that and say, only hide group-2 and
keep group-1, or something like that.
So they're just kind of like,
again, labelling your Tupperware,
but even being more specific.
So I cannot put another
group-2 on this page.
So here's the reason why this name
is actually a bad name, right?
Group-2 is really not that
descriptive because let's say,
I have like, blog-posts-groups, right?
And I say group-2, right.
Am I referring to group-2 of
the picture-groups or group-2 or
the blog-posts-groups?
So you wanna be specific enough but
as general as possible.
There you go, that's [LAUGH] that's
your contradiction for the day.
Be as specific as possible.
>> Speaker 2: On the IDs and
classes they were asking about like,
how many IDs can you use versus classes?
Can you just explain that?
>> Brian Holt: Totally,
you can only have one ID.
Like, that's like hard and
fast rule only have one ID, right?
Because ID's in themselves are unique so
there's no point in having
multiple groups, right?
You can have as many classes as you want,
which is kind of fun because now
you can mix and match them, right?
Let's say, I have,
let's just modify this a little bit.
So I'm just gonna put another group here,
this is now group-3, right?
Okay.
So all I've done is just
added more cat pictures.
But let's say I really wanted to
emphasize both first group and
the third group, for example, right?
What I would do is, I would say
emphasis-group or something like that.
Some name like that, right?
And then here, on the picture-group,
I can also put that as well.
So now you can kinda mix them together,
right?
So you can have, I don't know, going back
to our contrived Tupperware example,
you can have this is a vegetable,
and this is also meat.
Right, it has both of
these things in there,
so I'm gonna label with both
of these things, right?
So in this particular group I wanna it to
have all the attributes of being a picture
group, but I also want you to know like
this one's actually really special so
I'm gonna emphasize that one as well.
That's a great question.
But now the second one it
lacks the emphasis-group so
it's not gonna have the emphasis-group
qualities it's just
gonna have the picture-group qualities.
>> Speaker 2: And
that's only if you have CSS?
>> Brian Holt: If this
is gonna be used a lot in CSS and
can be used a lot as well in JavaScript.
>> Speaker 2: But within the browser,
that class label
does absolutely nothing except-
>> Brian Holt: Correct.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, there's no special
classes, right?
Everything that you do with class
is gonna be something you define.
Either style that you define or
behavior that you're gonna define.
That's what their one for
labeling your containers, right?
For example, I see picture-group and
I know that one's a picture-group, right?
Or I can see emphasis, I know this
is a special picture-group, right?
So that's one of the uses but
the second use,
like the part the actually
the users gonna see that's
gonna be from the CSS and the JavaScript.
It's good question.
>> Speaker 3: When the DOM interpreters
going through parsing the page what does
it do if it finds two identical ID's?
>> Brian Holt: I believe it actually
ignores them, so it's good to get
different based on different browsers.
I know in old versions
Internet Explorer will handle it
differently.
>> Brian Holt: They're
gonna go into quirks mode,
which is a really bad thing.
It just, does weird stuff to try and
make your code work.
>> Speaker 3: It varies depending on what
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: It'll vary based on your
browser, but for the most part I
think it will actually honor it.
You can have group-2 and
it would just apply everything-
>> Speaker 3: So
it'll treat it more like a class then?
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
I'm thinking about it.
I think what it will do it will
apply it to the first one only.
That's my guess.
And I guess the point of all of
it is just don't do it, right?
Yeah.